---
layout: page
breadcrumb: true

# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Content
# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

subheadline: "Useful Tools"
title: "Report UI Bugs Easier"
teaser: "You are a software developer. Your job is aided with tools. There are some nasty UI bugs and unexpected behavior. Reporting such has never been easier with screenr."

categories:
  - tool

tags:
  - screen
  - capture
  - UI
  - bugs

# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Styling
# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
header:
    title: screenr
    image_fullwidth: screenr_header.jpg

image:
    homepage: screenr_header.jpg
---

The other day I wanted to report a user-interface incident into a ticketing system.
On one hand the issue was reproducible, on the other hand it took several steps to recreate.
All that I wanted was a simple tool which could take screen-shots one after the other on pressing a hot-key.
I also wanted to have a video in the end from all of these images: uploading only one file instead of tenths is more efficient to do.
Furthermore, the one who analyses the incident may understand the problem faster with visualization through seek-able, stoppable and sequential report.

This is how it began.
After searching for some time I had to realize there was not a single and free tool available which could do all of these.

> Come on, this is really a simple and common problem!

The next day I came up with the idea to write such a tool.
Surprisingly, it didn't take much time.
Now I am sharing screenr with all of you facing the same problem.

Screenr is nothing but a console application, written in C++, which creates screen-shots on pressing _Ctrl + F1_ and uses [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) to create GIF and AVI files after stopping it with _Ctrl + F2_.

It has two mandatory parameters and uses [TCLAP](http://tclap.sourceforge.net/) as a command-line argument parser:
* **directory**: path of the directory where the files shall be stored.
* **prefix**: custom name prefix for the files created.

Invocation of screenr is just like this:

{% include alert terminal='screenr.exe -d x:\ui_issue -p screenshot' %}

On the PNG-formatted screen-shots the location of the mouse pointer is replaced with a nice red dot to increase visiblity.

The [repository](https://gitlab.com/tamaspetz/screenr) is available in GitLab. Login is required.
